# GraphQL Golden Path WG Notes - February 2026

**Watch the replays:**
[GraphQL Working Group Meetings on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLP1igyLx8foH_rlZY638-w_iTFBiKeN_z)

## Notes

[https://github.com/graphql/graphql-wg/issues/1887](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-wg/issues/1887)

Benjie: Golden path is different from best practices. Golden path is on by
default. Best practices are opt-in.

Benjie: one example is batch resolvers

Mark: everyone should do trusted documents.

Michael: Agree. Best practices + strong defaults.

Benjie: what is a public API? Is this something served on the internet? Not
necessarily. It can be public but if you control all the clients then it’s not
really public.

Benjie: this is opinionated but we don’t want to inhibit innovation. Batch
execution is the generic term for things that eliminate the n+1 problem. We
don’t want to limit to dataloaders or a specific solution.

Pascal: we have to be very specific about how to build the server. In 90% it’s
going to be dataloaders.

Benjie: the n+1 problem is a massive downside. The pb of dataloaders is that
users have to opt into it. It’s effort for people to do it.

Mark: who is the intended audience? Is this purely library/framework authors? Or
are we also expecting end users to look at this?

Michael: both. If the graphql server has very good defaults, then it’s all good.

Benjie: Golden path is just a name. If you have a parse() method, it should have
a good default value for the number of tokens. That limit should be in a
document.

Pascal: security by default is super important.

Benjie: this isn’t about the best upsides, it’s about minimizing the down sides.
GraphQL exposes the n_1 problem in a way that is worse than any other
[technology.It](technology.It)’s not the n+1 problem, it’s the n^2 problem.

What else than batched resolution? What does that mean for other users?

- Batch resolving
- Connections

Martin: should this belong in the spec?

Benjie: not really, it’s not a GAP either. It’s a list of recommendations.

It’d be great to have compatibility acceptance tests

There used to be something for the spec but then we gave up. Denis wrote one for
graphql over http
